README.md, before:

# kw1281test
VW KW1281 Protocol Test Tool

This tool can send some KW1281 (and a few KW2000) commands over a dumb serial->KKL or USB->KKL cable.
If you have a legacy Ross-Tech USB cable, you can probably use that cable by
installing the Virtual COM Port drivers: https://www.ross-tech.com/vag-com/usb/virtual-com-port.php
Functionality includes reading/writing the EEPROMs of VW MKIV Golf/Jetta/Beetle/Passat instrument clusters and Comfort Control Modules, reading and clearing fault codes, changing the software coding of modules, performing an actuator test of various modules and retrieving the SAFE code of the Delco Premium V radio.

The tool is written in C#, targetting .NET 7.0 and runs under Windows 10/11 (most serial ports), macOS and Linux (macOS/Linux need an FTDI serial port and D2xx drivers). It may also run under
Windows 7.

You can download a precompiled version for Windows, macOS and Linux (x64) from the Releases page: https://github.com/gmenounos/kw1281test/releases/

Otherwise, here's how to build it yourself:

##### Compiling the tool

1. You will need the .NET Core SDK,
which you can find here: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download
(Click on the "Download .NET Core SDK" link and follow the instructions) or Microsoft Visual Studio
(free Community Edition here: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/)

2. Download the source code: https://github.com/gmenounos/kw1281test/archive/master.zip
and unzip it into a folder on your computer.

3. Open up a command prompt on your computer and go into the folder where you unzipped
the source code. Type `dotnet build` to build the tool.
Or, load up the project in Visual Studio and Ctrl-Shift-B.

4. You can run the tool by typing `dotnet run`

```
Usage: KW1281Test PORT BAUD ADDRESS COMMAND [args]
    PORT = COM1|COM2|etc.
    BAUD = 10400|9600|etc.
    ADDRESS = The controller address, e.g. 1 (ECU), 17 (cluster), 46 (CCM), 56 (radio)
    COMMAND =
        ActuatorTest
        AdaptationRead CHANNEL [LOGIN]
            CHANNEL = Channel number (0-99)
            LOGIN = Optional login (0-65535)
        AdaptationSave CHANNEL VALUE [LOGIN]
            CHANNEL = Channel number (0-99)
            VALUE = Channel value (0-65535)
            LOGIN = Optional login (0-65535)
        AdaptationTest CHANNEL VALUE [LOGIN]
            CHANNEL = Channel number (0-99)
            VALUE = Channel value (0-65535)
            LOGIN = Optional login (0-65535)
        BasicSetting GROUP
            GROUP = Group number (0-255)
            (Group 0: Raw controller data)
        ClarionVWPremium4SafeCode
        ClearFaultCodes
        DelcoVWPremium5SafeCode
        DumpEdc15Eeprom [FILENAME]
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        DumpEeprom START LENGTH [FILENAME]
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 0) or hex (e.g. $0)
            LENGTH = Number of bytes in decimal (e.g. 2048) or hex (e.g. $800)
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        DumpMarelliMem START LENGTH [FILENAME]
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 3072) or hex (e.g. $C00)
            LENGTH = Number of bytes in decimal (e.g. 1024) or hex (e.g. $400)
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        DumpMem START LENGTH [FILENAME]
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 8192) or hex (e.g. $2000)
            LENGTH = Number of bytes in decimal (e.g. 65536) or hex (e.g. $10000)
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        DumpRBxMem START LENGTH [FILENAME]
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 66560) or hex (e.g. $10400)
            LENGTH = Number of bytes in decimal (e.g. 1024) or hex (e.g. $400)
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        GetSKC
        GroupRead GROUP
            GROUP = Group number (0-255)
            (Group 0: Raw controller data)
        LoadEeprom START FILENAME
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 0) or hex (e.g. $0)
            FILENAME = Name of file containing binary data to load into EEPROM
        MapEeprom
        ReadFaultCodes
        ReadIdent
        ReadEeprom ADDRESS
            ADDRESS = Address in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
        ReadRAM ADDRESS
            ADDRESS = Address in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
        ReadROM ADDRESS
            ADDRESS = Address in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
        ReadSoftwareVersion
        Reset
        SetSoftwareCoding CODING WORKSHOP
            CODING = Software coding in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
            WORKSHOP = Workshop code in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
        ToggleRB4Mode
        WriteEeprom ADDRESS VALUE
            ADDRESS = Address in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
            VALUE = Value in decimal (e.g. 138) or hex (e.g. $8A)
```

##### Credits
- Protocol Info: https://www.blafusel.de/obd/obd2_kw1281.html  
- VW Radio Reverse Engineering Info: https://github.com/mnaberez/vwradio  
- 6502bench SourceGen: https://6502bench.com/
- EDC15 flashing info and seed/key algorithm: https://github.com/fjvva/ecu-tool
- Contributions
    - [IJskonijn](https://github.com/IJskonijn)
    - [jpadie](https://github.com/jpadie)
    - [kerekt](https://github.com/kerekt)

Commit message:

Added WriteEdc15Eeprom command. Version 0.91-beta

README.md, after:

# kw1281test
VW KW1281 Protocol Test Tool

This tool can send some KW1281 (and a few KW2000) commands over a dumb serial->KKL or USB->KKL cable.
If you have a legacy Ross-Tech USB cable, you can probably use that cable by
installing the Virtual COM Port drivers: https://www.ross-tech.com/vag-com/usb/virtual-com-port.php
Functionality includes reading/writing the EEPROMs of VW MKIV Golf/Jetta/Beetle/Passat instrument clusters and Comfort Control Modules, reading and clearing fault codes, changing the software coding of modules, performing an actuator test of various modules and retrieving the SAFE code of the Delco Premium V radio.

The tool is written in C#, targetting .NET 7.0 and runs under Windows 10/11 (most serial ports), macOS and Linux (macOS/Linux need an FTDI serial port and D2xx drivers). It may also run under
Windows 7.

You can download a precompiled version for Windows, macOS and Linux (x64) from the Releases page: https://github.com/gmenounos/kw1281test/releases/

Otherwise, here's how to build it yourself:

##### Compiling the tool

1. You will need the .NET Core SDK,
which you can find here: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download
(Click on the "Download .NET Core SDK" link and follow the instructions) or Microsoft Visual Studio
(free Community Edition here: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/)

2. Download the source code: https://github.com/gmenounos/kw1281test/archive/master.zip
and unzip it into a folder on your computer.

3. Open up a command prompt on your computer and go into the folder where you unzipped
the source code. Type `dotnet build` to build the tool.
Or, load up the project in Visual Studio and Ctrl-Shift-B.

4. You can run the tool by typing `dotnet run`

```
Usage: KW1281Test PORT BAUD ADDRESS COMMAND [args]
    PORT = COM1|COM2|etc.
    BAUD = 10400|9600|etc.
    ADDRESS = The controller address, e.g. 1 (ECU), 17 (cluster), 46 (CCM), 56 (radio)
    COMMAND =
        ActuatorTest
        AdaptationRead CHANNEL [LOGIN]
            CHANNEL = Channel number (0-99)
            LOGIN = Optional login (0-65535)
        AdaptationSave CHANNEL VALUE [LOGIN]
            CHANNEL = Channel number (0-99)
            VALUE = Channel value (0-65535)
            LOGIN = Optional login (0-65535)
        AdaptationTest CHANNEL VALUE [LOGIN]
            CHANNEL = Channel number (0-99)
            VALUE = Channel value (0-65535)
            LOGIN = Optional login (0-65535)
        BasicSetting GROUP
            GROUP = Group number (0-255)
            (Group 0: Raw controller data)
        ClarionVWPremium4SafeCode
        ClearFaultCodes
        DelcoVWPremium5SafeCode
        DumpEdc15Eeprom [FILENAME]
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        DumpEeprom START LENGTH [FILENAME]
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 0) or hex (e.g. $0)
            LENGTH = Number of bytes in decimal (e.g. 2048) or hex (e.g. $800)
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        DumpMarelliMem START LENGTH [FILENAME]
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 3072) or hex (e.g. $C00)
            LENGTH = Number of bytes in decimal (e.g. 1024) or hex (e.g. $400)
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        DumpMem START LENGTH [FILENAME]
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 8192) or hex (e.g. $2000)
            LENGTH = Number of bytes in decimal (e.g. 65536) or hex (e.g. $10000)
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        DumpRBxMem START LENGTH [FILENAME]
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 66560) or hex (e.g. $10400)
            LENGTH = Number of bytes in decimal (e.g. 1024) or hex (e.g. $400)
            FILENAME = Optional filename
        GetSKC
        GroupRead GROUP
            GROUP = Group number (0-255)
            (Group 0: Raw controller data)
        LoadEeprom START FILENAME
            START = Start address in decimal (e.g. 0) or hex (e.g. $0)
            FILENAME = Name of file containing binary data to load into EEPROM
        MapEeprom
        ReadFaultCodes
        ReadIdent
        ReadEeprom ADDRESS
            ADDRESS = Address in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
        ReadRAM ADDRESS
            ADDRESS = Address in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
        ReadROM ADDRESS
            ADDRESS = Address in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
        ReadSoftwareVersion
        Reset
        SetSoftwareCoding CODING WORKSHOP
            CODING = Software coding in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
            WORKSHOP = Workshop code in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
        ToggleRB4Mode
        WriteEdc15Eeprom ADDRESS1 VALUE1 [ADDRESS2 VALUE2 ... ADDRESSn VALUEn]
            ADDRESS = EEPROM address in decimal (0-511) or hex ($00-$1FF)
            VALUE = Value to be stored at address in decimal (0-255) or hex ($00-$FF)
        WriteEeprom ADDRESS VALUE
            ADDRESS = Address in decimal (e.g. 4361) or hex (e.g. $1109)
            VALUE = Value in decimal (e.g. 138) or hex (e.g. $8A)
```

##### Credits
- Protocol Info: https://www.blafusel.de/obd/obd2_kw1281.html  
- VW Radio Reverse Engineering Info: https://github.com/mnaberez/vwradio  
- 6502bench SourceGen: https://6502bench.com/
- EDC15 flashing info and seed/key algorithm: https://github.com/fjvva/ecu-tool
- Contributions
    - [IJskonijn](https://github.com/IJskonijn)
    - [jpadie](https://github.com/jpadie)
    - [kerekt](https://github.com/kerekt)
